Live Stream API DRM Key Publisher Samples (#9923)
GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples: cloud-media-livestream/keypublisher/README.md

> # User-managed encryption key publisher

Reviewer: Could you label the instructions with numbers? It's a bit hard to follow the different texts and when to read onto a part of the instruction or if it spills into the next section.

Author: I've added numbering for the H2 headers so that each general section is easier to spot. Please let me know if you think the H3s also need numbering.

Reviewer: Looks much better! I think numbered H2 headers are easier to work with than numbered H3 headers (or some mix).

Code intended to be run by users of the Live Stream API. This code utilizes DRM
provider CPIX APIs to fetch encryption keys and store them in Google Secret
Manager for use with the Live Stream API's encryption feature.

## Setup

### Install and configure gcloud

> Follow standard install instructions. Use `gcloud config` to set your project

Author: agreed, link added.

and preferred region/zone.

> ### Configure Cloud Functions and API Gateway

Author: Yes! thank you for catching this

### Enable APIs

Enable Google APIs used to host your key publisher and write key information to
Secret Manager.

```shell
gcloud services enable apigateway.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable cloudbuild.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable cloudfunctions.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable secretmanager.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable servicecontrol.googleapis.com
gcloud services enable servicemanagement.googleapis.com
```

### Create service accounts

Two service accounts are needed for your key publisher. The first allows your
API Gateway to invoke your cloud function (with the IAM role of
`roles/cloudfunctions.invoker`), and the second allows Cloud Functions to read
and write to Secret Manager (with the IAM role of `roles/secretmanager.admin`).

Create the service account for invoking Cloud Functions:

```shell
gcloud iam service-accounts create livestream-cf-invoker \
  --display-name="Cloud Function invoker for the API Gateway" \
  --description="Service Account to be used by the API Gateway to invoke Cloud Functions"
```

> Then configure the IAM policy binding:

Author: I've modified `MY-PROJECT` to `MY-PROJECT-ID` to make it clearer.

```shell
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding [MY-PROJECT] \
  --member serviceAccount:"livestream-cf-invoker@[MY-PROJECT].iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
  --role "roles/cloudfunctions.invoker" \
  --no-user-output-enabled \
  --quiet
```

Next, create another service account for interacting with Secret Manager:

```shell
gcloud iam service-accounts create livestream-cloud-functions \
  --display-name="Service account for Cloud Functions" \
  --description="Service Account used for the Live Stream API key publisher functions"
```

Then configure the IAM policy binding:

```shell
gcloud projects add-iam-policy-binding [MY-PROJECT] \
  --member serviceAccount:"livestream-cloud-functions@[MY-PROJECT].iam.gserviceaccount.com" \
  --role "roles/secretmanager.admin" \
  --no-user-output-enabled \
  --quiet
```

### Deploy the cloud function

> Create a file `.env.yaml`. This will store environment variables to be used by

Author: File added now. I've left the content of the file in the README to make it clear fields to update.

CPIX_ENDPOINT: https://cpix-api.url
# The ID of the secret containing the provider's public certificate.
CPIX_PUBLIC_CERT_PROVIDER_SECRET: cpix-public-cert-provider
# The ID of the secret containing your private key.
CPIX_PRIVATE_KEY_USER_SECRET: cpix-private-key-user
# The ID of the secret containing your public certificate.
CPIX_PUBLIC_CERT_USER_SECRET: cpix-public-cert-user
# (Optional) The ID of the secret containing your enduser private key.
CPIX_PRIVATE_KEY_ENDUSER_SECRET: cpix-private-key-enduser
# (Optional) The ID of the secret containing your enduser public certificate.
CPIX_PUBLIC_CERT_ENDUSER_SECRET: cpix-public-cert-enduser
```

Then deploy your function:

```shell
gcloud functions deploy livestream-key-publisher \
  --entry-point=keys \
  --runtime=python310 \
  --trigger-http \
  --memory=256MB \
  --security-level=secure-always \
  --timeout=60s \
  --env-vars-file=.env.yaml \
  --service-account="livestream-cloud-functions@[MY-PROJECT].iam.gserviceaccount.com"
```

After your function is deployed, the response you get will contain the
`httpsTrigger.url` field. Save this value for later when you configure your API

> Gateway.

Author: an example of the output structure is provided.

you deployed your function.

Once the file has been created, create your API config:

```shell
gcloud api-gateway api-configs create livestream-key-publisher-api-config-1 \
  --display-name="Live Stream Key Publisher API Config v1" \
  --api=livestream-key-publisher-api \
  --openapi-spec="api-config.yml" \
  --backend-auth-service-account="livestream-cf-invoker@[MY-PROJECT].iam.gserviceaccount.com"
```

Next, create the API Gateway:

```shell
gcloud api-gateway gateways create livestream-key-publisher-api-gateway \
  --display-name="Live Stream Key Publisher API Gateway" \
  --api=livestream-key-publisher-api \
  --api-config=livestream-key-publisher-api-config-1 \
  --location=us-central1
```

Once created, your API must be enabled. Run a command to describe your API:

```shell
gcloud api-gateway apis describe livestream-key-publisher-api
```

You will get the `managedService` field in the response. This is the service you
need to enable. For example,

```shell
gcloud services enable livestream-key-publisher-api-144h6p0e7bzc1.apigateway.[MY-PROJECT].cloud.goog
```

Now you need to locate the endpoint URL of your API. Run a command to describe
your gateway:

```shell

> gcloud api-gateway gateways describe livestream-key-publisher-api-gateway --location=us-central1

Author: Can be other supported regions too. I've changed the instruction to point out the list of supported GCP Regions.

```

You will get the `defaultHostname` field in the response. For example,

```
defaultHostname: livestream-key-publisher-api-gateway-48mwfke9.uc.gateway.dev
```

> You will send API requests to this URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will send API requests to the URL received from your response.
```

Create an API key to use for making queries to your API, and restrict the API
key such that only your newly created `livestream-key-publisher-api` can be
called with the API key. Specify the API restriction with the `managedService`

> field from earlier:

Reviewer: Can you give an example for this?

Author: I've added an example that's consistent with the `managedService` example from earlier. Please let me know if this is still unclear.

```shell
gcloud alpha services api-keys create --api-target=service=[managedService]
```

You will get the `keyString` field in the response. This is your API key. Save

> this key, as you will not be able to retrieve it again.

Reviewer: This should have a lot of warning signs!!

Author: Yes! thank you for the suggestion

### Test your API

Using the above information, use `curl` to make a `GET` query to your API:

```shell
curl --location --request POST \
  'https://livestream-key-publisher-api-gateway-48mwfke9.uc.gateway.dev/keys?api_key=YOUR_API_KEY' \
  --header 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  --data '{"mediaId": "my-asset", "provider": "FakeProvider", "keyIds": ["abcd1234", "efgi5678"]}'
```

Arguments in the request body are:

*   `mediaId`: arbitrary identifier for the media being encrypted.
*   `provider`: the DRM provider to use. Omit this argument to see a list of
    supported providers.
*   `keyIds`: a list of key IDs to prepare for the given media ID.

> This example query uses `FakeProvider`. This is a provider used as a reference

Reviewer: What should the user precisely need to update? Is it just `FakeProvider`? calling it out explicitly will definitely help.

Author: I've updated the instruction. All arguments can be updated, especially the `provider` and `keyIds` fields. The code in this sample should help users who are working with a third-party DRM provider and need a reference for integrating with Live Stream API. So they should have `keyIds` information provided by their DRM provider already.

example, which does not make any actual CPIX queries, but generates random hex
strings in place of a real key. These keys will not work for a real encryption
setup.

If the query is successful, you will see a response like:

```
projects/PROJECT_NUMBER/secrets/MEDIA_ID/versions/1
```

This is the name of the secret version that was created to hold your encryption
keys.

To verify this, you can use `gcloud` to access the content of that secret:

```shell
gcloud secrets versions access projects/PROJECT_NUMBER/secrets/MEDIA_ID/versions/1
```

## Update code

Use `gcloud functions deploy` to update your Cloud Function code. Ensure

> `.env.yaml` still exists and its contents are correct.

Reviewer: ditto for direct link to an example file.

> `.env.yaml` still exists and its contents are correct.

Reviewer: `and its contents are correct.`

Do you expect the user to have somehow deviated/modified the content in the file? If not, leave this part out or simply have the user re-use the example file.

Author: sg, I've reference the same example file here now.

  --entry-point=keys \
  --runtime=python310 \
  --trigger-http \
  --memory=256MB \
  --security-level=secure-always \
  --timeout=60s \
  --env-vars-file=.env.yaml \
  --service-account="livestream-cloud-functions@[MY-PROJECT].iam.gserviceaccount.com"
```

If request paths or parameters have changed, you may also need to update
`api-config.yml` to match. To do this, update `api-config.yml` as needed, then
create a new API config:

```shell
gcloud api-gateway api-configs create livestream-key-publisher-api-config-2 \
  --display-name="Live Stream Key Publisher API Config v2" \
  --api=livestream-key-publisher-api \
  --openapi-spec="api-config.yml" \
  --backend-auth-service-account="livestream-cf-invoker@[MY-PROJECT].iam.gserviceaccount.com"
```

Once the config has been created, update the API Gateway to use your new config:

```shell
gcloud api-gateway gateways update livestream-key-publisher-api-gateway \
  --api=livestream-key-publisher-api \
  --api-config=livestream-key-publisher-api-config-2 \
  --location=us-central1
```

## Supported Python Versions

The code samples for key publisher are compatible with all current active and
maintenance versions of Python.

> Python >= 3.7

Reviewer: I'd suggest linking to a page rather than specifying a version. 3.7 will also be end of life in about a month (June 27?)

Author: Done.
